---
title: <span class="d-none d-md-block">Marketing<br>& Advertising</span><span class="d-block d-md-none">Marketing<br>& Advertising</span>
order: 4
---

<p><span class="font-light">Marketing & Advertising</span><br>I have a bachelor's degree as a <em class="font-ultra-light text-italic">Publicist</em> with a 5 year career and background focused in advertising, advertising design, campaigning, and marketing; including numerous exercises and projects on branding, public presentations and hundreds of individual and group projects creating ATL & BTL advertising, commercials, social media marketing campaigns, and even learning web design. I put an important focus on the psychology of persuasion underpinning communication, ads, slogans, and promotional text. My background involves a deep understanding of the importance of visual semiotics and linguistics, creating messages and visual designs that touch on human emotions and ultimately generate action.</p>

<p><span class="font-light">Branding & Identity</span><br>Branding was a big focus in my career, we analyzed everything about brands and the phychology around all their marketing, each advertizing piece and the why of everything, from a logo to a full advertising campaign. (Even the colors in i.e. McDonals were decided by phychologists and publicists, and they have a why, they let you a sense of eagerness so you eat and go, you don't stay too much there; just one of thousands of examples). We analyzed and created concept logos from scratch, color schemes and brands, studying color theory and experimenting with color psychology, as well as understanding the elements that compose a logo which is in simple words: Reducing a brand to its minimal visual components. I can help you build a strong brand conceptual and visual identity that reflects your company's culture and feel. Branding encompasses much more than just a logo or graphic design, it goes into the whole experience and the brand's recognition and positioning in people's minds.</p>

<p><span class="font-light">Copywriting</span><br>I believe language is essential; one word can change everything. One word can change the whole meaning of a message and create another complete different result. For this reason, my studies covered some semesters of linguistics and I put a lot of emphasis on good grammar. Copy and copywriting are essencial for marketing and advertising and it's even one of the advertising agencies main role. My native language is Spanish though I am also able to produce native-level English for projects for you.</p>