---
title: Markup &<br>Programming<br>Languages
order: 1
---

<p><span class="font-light">HTML5</span><br>I have over 7 years of experience and working with this markup language and I have worked and collaborated on more than 40 web projects, with a selection displayed in this portfolio. I love using good HTML semantics, coherent, organized, and hierarchical markup, and I'm always trying to think in accessibility when writing the HTML.</p>

<p><span class="font-light">CSS3 (& SASS)</span><br>CSS is a styling language I have 7 years of experience with. Easy to learn, but hard to master. I have experience working with pure CSS and especially with CSS preprocessor languages like SASS<!-- or Less-->. CSS, when used to its full extent can be very powerful.<!-- Modern web responsive design is all in the CSS, it was stablished to be no longer in the HTML and styles should be independent from structure.--> You may want to re-size your screen and check out this portfolio in responsive, that will show some CSS skills. I love CSS.</p><!--Knowing and using CSS well can be very, very powerful.-->

<p><span class="font-light">JavaScript</span><br>Although most of the sites I have worked on have at least some JavaScript for simple interactions, plus I also implemented more complex JS and many playful elements through all this portfolio website and my two latest sites, following some documentation and making hundreds of modifications to adapt everything with purpose into my unique designs and websites, like this one on every page. I took a basic JS course in the past, but now in 2021 I have focused around 3 months on improving and cementing my vanilla JavaScript knowledge to have a strong base and then have a smoother transition to ReactJS.</p>

<p><span class="font-light">ReactJS</span><br>My short term goal now is to become proficient at React.js (and vanilla JS as well), using Next.js (JAMstack), Gatsby, React Native, and more. I'm currently in 2021 taking some courses and learning React which I'm loving. I'll re-do my portfolio for a version 3 using it soon. I'm working on some experimental small Apps now too using React and some APIs (like edamam's: <em>https://www.edamam.com/</em>); I'll want to display them later when I have a MVP to show.</p>

<p><span class="font-light">NextJS</span><br>I'm currently learning Next.js (a React.js meta framework) as part of the ReactJS stack, to be able to take advantage of its server-side rendering and its static site generation capabilities using React (as an addition to the React's client-side rendering capability).</p>

<p><span class="font-light">Liquid Code</span><br>Liquid is a templating language used to create dynamic websites and pull dynamic content. It is used in Shopify's e-commerce websites, NationBuilder's campaigning platforms and some static site generators (or JAMstack sites: The new standard architecture for the web) like Jekyll. I have 5 years of experience using this language building dozens of dynamic sites easy to edit for the clients, using a similar structure to "components" or partial/snippet code in its own files, pulling and looping through dynamic content and rendering HTML, similar to the concept of React "props" printing and looping through dynamic content to render JSX or extended HTML code.</p><!--My experience using this language has meant I am able to accomplish more than the regular.-->

<!--<p><span class="font-light">Javascript & React</span><br>I retain a working knowledge of the language which I continue to expand on an ongoing basis. My short term goal now is to become proficient at JavaScript and React.js, I'm currently taking some courses improving my JS skills and learning React.</p>--><!--I'm currently expanding my knowledge and focusing on learning it better to be able to master it.-->

<!--<p><span class="font-light">React Js</span><br>I retain a working knowledge of the language, and is my main focus to expand my current skillset. I intend on transferring some of my newest sites to this language using Next.js in the future.</p>--><!--I have small knowledge-->

<!--<p><span class="font-light">Green Sock Animation Platform</span><br>It is currently powering some of the animations in this portfolio and a couple of my recent projects. I continue to expand my capabilities to give even more life to future sites and create more interesting interactive designs.</p>-->